# Role robotuser
[back to index](../index.md#Roles)

## Summary
Adds a robot user along with a private ssh key.

## Requires
n/a

## Description
Add a robot user to the system. 
This user can be used e.g. in sudo actions for accessing other nodes, 
provided that such node has authorized the robot's public key.

To facilitate connections over ssh protocol, a file `connection-info.yml` 
with information for mount purposes is placed in the home directory of the 
robotuser and the server node is added to the known hosts.  

This role requires the plugin/playbook to provide some Ansible variables as
parameter: `robotuser_key` (private ssh key), `robotuser_server` (ip address), 
`robotuser_sourcepath` (server directory as data source for mounts).

### Configuration instructions
First, deploy a robot server and prepare the plugins:
- Create an SRC plugin called `robot-server` which runs the playbook `robot-server.yml`.
The plugin will create a Linux user `uurobot` along with a new ssh key pair.
- Create a `robot-server` application that contains this plugin.
- Deploy a robot-server workspace. This server will run 24/7 to accept incoming
requests for access to a data directory.
- Create an SRC plugin called `robot-client` which runs the playbook `robot-client.yml`.
Copy the private key of Linux user `uurobot` from the robot server workspace, and paste
this key into the robot-client plugin string-type parameter `robotuser_key`. 
In addition, paste the netwerk address (ip) into the string-type parameter `robotuser_server`.
Similarly, paste the path of a robot server directory with shared data into
string-type parameter `robotuser_sourcepath`.
  
Now we are ready to create workspaces that will connect to the robot server using sshfs
mounts authenticating as the robot user:
- Add the `robot-client` SRC plugin to a workspace application
- Add an application specific plugin to the workspace application for using the shared data.
This plugin should execute a playbook to execute the following roles:   

```
   roles:
    - sshfs-configrobot
    - sshfs-mount
    - ....  (add application-specific roles here, can access the shared data)
    - sshfs-umount
```
The first role fetches information on the server/connection as has been prepared by the
`robot-client` plugin in an earlier stage of the deployment process.
The second role performs a fuse mount of the remote directory via sshfs, while the last role
unmounts the filesystem (which disconnects from the robot server).

For an actual example robotuser use case, please see the [matlab](../playbooks/matlab.md) playbook in
this repository and the related plugins on SURF Research Cloud.


## Variables
```
robotuser_name: "uurobot"
robotuser_key: "** generated by Ansible script. Please make sure your playbook specifies a private key as the value for the variable 'robotuser_key' **"
robotuser_generate_ssh_key: "no"
robotuser_server:  # no default value! 
robotuser_sourcepath:  # no default value!
```
When the variable `robotuser_generate_ssh_key` is set to "yes" then a public/private key pair
is generated for this user. The use case for this setting is creation of the robotuser at a server
instead of a client.

## See also
- [sshfs-mount](sshfs-mount.md)
- [sshfs-umount](sshfs-umount.md)
- [sshfs-configrobot](sshfs-configrobot.md)

## History
2021 Written by Ton Smeele (Utrecht University)



[back to index](../index.md#Roles)
